x10abot
=======

The X10ABOT robotics architecture is an extensible, modular, scalable and hopefully inexpensive robotics hardware and software architecture which is built with support for the LEGO Mindstorms NXT firmware

Fancy Description
=======

We present an architecture for the hardware and software platform of the X10ABOT general purpose robotics development kit. The aim is to create a robotics kit which will be able to facilitate the development of a large range of autonomous robotic creations, utilizing multiple sensors and actuators. The platform is modular, extensible and can support hundreds of sensors and actuators.
The project aims to provide an easy to use solution that would be suitable for users ranging from as early as primary school students all the way throughout the educational system to the laboraotories of graduate level roboticists and the average tech savvy hobbyists. Robotics Development plays its role as an educational tool in schools (e.g. 6.270 competition at MIT) and has a large hobbyist developer following; each group takes advantage of pre-built general purpose robotic kits for a myriad of applications.
Similar projects have been implemented namely the LEGO MINDSTORMS RCX & NXT kits, Vex robotics kit, Bioloid Robot Kit, and there is also the Tetrixx robot kit which utilizes metal bricks. These represent the most popular modular, fully programmable robotic kits which now exist, each with its own set of advantages. Neither has fully satisfied the features of being multi-purpose, scalable, extensible, easy to use and inexpensive. The X10ABOT robotics platform greatly exceeds the capability of many general purpose robotics kit architectures. For instance the LEGO NXT has great software but only supports four sensors and three actuators. The X10ABOT has a modular expandable design which scales inexpensively as more sensors and actuators are added. It is also designed to be extensible with support for many of the most common types of sensors and actuators, and a device API to facilitate development of driver libraries for new sensors and actuators. It will take advantage of the LEGO building blocks framework for construction due to its versatility and availability of inexpensive parts.
We demonstrate the application of the platform to the development of general purpose robotics kit that will be fully compatible with the LEGO NXT and yet scale to far more sensors and actuators, all at a fraction of its cost. When the hassle of inconvenient limitations and and high cost are surpassed, this will facilitate greater levels of creativity and innovation being made available at a reasonable cost.